---
title: "Speedtest"
date: "2024-01-01"
tags: ["tag1", "tag2"]
---



<a href="https://speedtest.hraadvisors.com" target="_blank">SPEEDTEST.HRAADVISORS.COM</a>


# Driving Digital Equity: Developing a Statewide Internet Speed Testing Tool

In an era where digital access is increasingly recognized as a fundamental right, ensuring equitable internet access has become a pressing priority. My recent collaboration with HR&A Advisors allowed me to contribute to a statewide initiative aimed at enhancing digital equity across multiple states. This project was not only ambitious but also pivotal in shaping policy decisions to bridge the digital divide.

## The Challenge: Understanding Digital Disparities

The core challenge of this project was to develop a tool that could accurately measure and analyze internet speeds across various regions. The goal was to identify and address the disparities in internet access that contribute to the broader issue of digital inequality. This required a solution that was both technically robust and user-friendly, capable of reaching a wide audience.

## Key Contributions

### Development of the Speed Test

To achieve this, I spearheaded the development of a speed testing tool using the `ndt7` protocol from M-Lab. This protocol was chosen for its precision and reliability, making it ideal for capturing accurate data on internet speeds across diverse locations.

### Data Management

Handling the data generated by the speed tests was another critical component of the project. I implemented data storage and management systems using MySQL and AWS S3, ensuring that the information collected was securely stored and easily accessible for analysis.

### User Interface Design

The user interface was engineered to be as efficient and intuitive as possible, all within a single HTML document. This streamlined approach minimized the potential for user error and maximized the reach of the tool, making it accessible to a broad audience.

## Impact and Reach

This tool was a cornerstone of a statewide survey initiative, utilized by thousands of respondents across multiple states. The data it gathered played a crucial role in identifying disparities in internet access and informing policy decisions aimed at bridging the digital divide.

## Confidentiality and Proprietary Solutions

Given the proprietary nature of the project, the source code is not publicly available. This ensures the confidentiality and integrity of the specialized solutions provided to the client. Although the site has since been removed, the impact of the tool on digital equity initiatives continues to resonate.

## Conclusion

Working on this project was a rewarding experience, allowing me to contribute to a significant cause. By helping to identify and address digital disparities, we took important steps toward ensuring that everyone, regardless of location, has access to the digital resources they need.


